<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIX: How They Fared at Belrémy During His Absence</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">How They Fared at Belrémy During His Absence</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The Lady Margaret walked upon the terrace of the castle alone. It was mid-March, and Simon had been absent for three long weeks. She had had news of him through Geoffrey, and knew that he was fighting in the Côtentin, away to the west, with King Henry’s brother, the Duke of Gloucester. He did not write to Margaret, and he sent no messages. The letters that came from him came rarely, and were bald and unsatisfying.</p>
			<p>The Lady Margaret glanced across the gardens wistfully. In the pleasaunce Geoffrey sat with his bride, she knew. She craved companionship, but she would not intrude into these two lovers’ idyll. Her ladies watched her, and she had sent them from her, to pace slowly up and down the terrace, her thoughts far away, and her black eyes sad and longing.</p>
			<p>A rumble sounded behind her; Fulk was stumping after her, his little eyes twinkling good-humouredly.</p>
			<p>“Hey, hey! Not so fast, lass!” he roared. “Come thou here, I say!”</p>
			<p>He and she were close friends by now, and the haughty Lady Margaret came meekly to his side, to sit down on the stone seat. Fulk sank heavily beside her, puffing and blowing.</p>
			<p>“What dost thou here, silly maid?” he demanded.</p>
			<p>“I am not a silly maid,” she answered mildly. “I am a woman-grown. So be not so rude, milor’.”</p>
			<p>“Ho⁠—ho! And how old art thou? No more than twenty-eight, I’ll swear.”</p>
			<p>“Twenty-eight?” Margaret sat up indignantly. “I am not yet twenty-six!”</p>
			<p>Fulk laughed.</p>
			<p>“A maid still! Now whence this fiery blush?”</p>
			<p>“Do⁠—do I look twenty-eight?” Margaret demanded.</p>
			<p>“Nay, nay, twenty-one rather. What dost thou here, alone?”</p>
			<p>“I was⁠—taking the air.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll warrant ye were sighing and pining for that lad of mine.”</p>
			<p>“Alan?” said the Lady Margaret coolly. “Nay, why should I?”</p>
			<p>“Alan! Hark to the child! Simon, thou dull girl!”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—do not think of him at all! And⁠—and I will not have ye⁠—call me names!”</p>
			<p>“Here’s a heat! Art a pert, saucy lass, I say.”</p>
			<p>“Well, sir, and what else?”</p>
			<p>“A wilful, headstrong baggage!” Fulk roared.</p>
			<p>Margaret covered her ears with her hands.</p>
			<p>“Do not shout at me!” she said. “I wonder you care to sit with a⁠—a baggage!”</p>
			<p>“So do I,” Fulk grunted. “A fitting pair will ye make, you and Simon. Belike ye will scratch his eyes out before he hath time to school ye. Maids were more gentle when I was a lad.”</p>
			<p>“Milor’ Fulk, I do not know why ye should couple my name with that of Lord⁠—”</p>
			<p>“There’s enough, there’s enough! Think ye I am come to listen to thy foolish chatter against Simon? Bah! Bah, I say!”</p>
			<p>“I heard you,” said the Lady Margaret.</p>
			<p>“Thou and thy hate! Talk for babes! Empty lies!”</p>
			<p>“Sir⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Now, will ye have done, Margot? Body o’ me, do ye think to fool a man of my years? Thou froward maid!”</p>
			<p>The Lady Margaret abandoned the struggle.</p>
			<p>“Indeed, I have never been so set at naught and⁠—and bullied in my life!”</p>
			<p>“Better for thee if thou hadst,” growled Fulk. “Thou dost need a master.”</p>
			<p>The Lady Margaret tilted her chin.</p>
			<p>“And will have one. In Simon!” Fulk went on, louder. “Shake not thy head, I say!”</p>
			<p>“He⁠—Simon⁠—will not return. Thou⁠—thou must look for my master⁠—elsewhere,” she said, a tiny catch in her voice.</p>
			<p>Fulk put his great arm about her waist.</p>
			<p>“Said I not thou wert a silly lass? Did he tell thee that he would come back? Answer me, Margot!”</p>
			<p>“I have forgotten.”</p>
			<p>“That for a tale! He said he would return, and he breaks not his word.”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I do not⁠—care!”</p>
			<p>“Ho⁠—ho!” Fulk pinched her cheeks. “Canst look me in the face and say that, child!”</p>
			<p>Margaret was silent, eyes downcast.</p>
			<p>“Now here come a pretty pair,” Fulk remarked, and looking up Margaret saw Geoffrey and Jeanne wending their way across the garden. Geoffrey’s arm was about Jeanne’s waist, and his black head was bent over her brown one.</p>
			<p>Margaret looked away, chin set firmly.</p>
			<p>“Never fret!” Fulk said. “Simon will come. Hey, there!”</p>
			<p>The absorbed couple below started, and looked up.</p>
			<p>“Is this the way thou dost mind thine affairs?” Fulk bellowed jovially.</p>
			<p>“Ay!” Geoffrey answered. “So please you, sir, this is mine affair.”</p>
			<p>“I am not at all,” Jeanne said with dignity. “I shall warn all maids ’gainst marriage. Husbands are very ungallant persons.” She looked up at Fulk. “Once I did think Geoffrey courtly and kind,” she said plaintively.</p>
			<p>“And thou thinkest it no longer?” Margaret asked, smiling.</p>
			<p>Jeanne shook her head mournfully.</p>
			<p>“He is a tyrant, madame. My life is misery.”</p>
			<p>“What hath Geoffrey to say?” Margaret inquired.</p>
			<p>He laughed up at her.</p>
			<p>“Why, madame, that maids are sweet, but wives are shrews.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!” Jeanne turned to pummel him.</p>
			<p>Fulk’s great laugh rang out.</p>
			<p>“There’s for you, Jeanne! God’s Body, kissing again? Margot, let us hence! My stomach turns at all this billing and cooing. Give me thine arm, child.” So they went away together.</p>
			<p>“He⁠—he⁠—called me⁠—the Amazon,” Margaret said, as they crossed the hall.</p>
			<p>“Simon? A murrain on him for a scurvy knave!”</p>
			<p>She smiled faintly.</p>
			<p>“And yet you love him.”</p>
			<p>“I? What ails the girl? I love that roystering, obstinate young hothead? Now, by the troth⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Who is lying now?” Margaret said softly.</p>
			<p>Fulk squeezed her arm.</p>
			<p>“Thou hast me there. He is a good lad, when all is said and done. I do wish to see him happy, Margot.”</p>
			<p>“Oh?”</p>
			<p>“Ay. And think not that a pert, wilful lass who doth not know her own heart shall gainsay my lion-cub! Think it not, Margot!”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I⁠—am not that⁠—that wilful lass,” she said, very low.</p>
			<p>“Are ye not? Who⁠—”</p>
			<p>“For⁠—for⁠—I do know mine own heart well.”</p>
			<p>“Then what is it?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, I⁠—I shall not tell thee that.”</p>
			<p>“So long as ye do tell it to Simon, I care not,” Fulk said gruffly.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
