<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI: How He Walked Alone in the Garden</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">How He Walked Alone in the Garden</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Barehead he walked slowly through the garden that surrounded the castle, and the pale sunlight played about his fair hair, while the wind stirred it gently and blew it across his face. His sword hung at his side, but his hands were clasped listlessly behind him, and he bent his head, deep in thought.</p>
			<p>It was four days since his talk with Margaret in the gallery and nothing further had passed between them since then. In two more days he would be gone from BelrГ©my, and for the first time in his life he was worried.</p>
			<p>He paced slowly to and fro across the lawn before the castle, seemingly lost in his thoughts, frowning slightly. From an arbour close by the Lady Margaret watched him, hidden from his sight by the bushes through which she peeped. She had escaped from her ladies and come here to be alone, why, she knew not. Ever since the day when Simon had rescued her from Raoul she had been racked and torn by conflicting emotions. Not one of them could she recognise, but she knew that a strange misery had her in its hold, that would not let her rest, causing her sleepless nights and storm-tossed thoughts. She was hungry for an unknown something, and at times she would bite hard on her lip to hold back the rush of angry, heartsick tears that sprang to her eyes. She was restless, too, and short with her ladies. Not even Jeanne would she have near her for long, but fled away by herself as now, fighting what she half-guessed to be a yearning for her mate. Try as she might she could not forget the feel of his arms about her on the ride from RaoulвҖҷs land, or the touch of his lips on hers. Again and again she tried to lash her anger to fresh energy, remembering all SimonвҖҷs iniquities, dwelling on them fiercely, pressing the scar on her bosom with nervous, trembling hands.</p>
			<p>For a long time she sat motionless in the arbour, heedless of the cold, watching SimonвҖҷs ceaseless, measured pacing with eyes that burned dark and troubled. Presently she saw him wheel to the left, and in a moment he had passed from her sight, through a gap in the yew hedge. Some of the rigidity left her then, and she fell to plucking at her gown, twisting the silk between her fingers, her mouth all awry with some inward pain. But in a little while she covered her face with her hands, and so remained for a long time, silent.</p>
			<p>She did not know why she suddenly looked up, every nerve strained to attention. No one was in sight, but from somewhere near at hand had come the sound of brushing against leaves. It was a tiny sound; a bird might have caused it, or some small animal, and yet she leaned forward, peering through the bushes with eyes that were narrowed and keen. Again came the sound, and she rose, noiseless, her skirts gathered up in one tense hand.</p>
			<p>To the left was the castle, to the right the hedge that bordered the bowling-green. Straight ahead, at the far end of the lawn was the gap through which Simon had gone. It led along an alley between high hedges, to her own garden, the pleasaunce, away from the castle. On the other side of the hedge that ran parallel to the castle were fields, leading down to the moat. It was towards this hedge that she looked, and presently, where the leaves were sparse, saw a shadow, moving stealthily beside it, on the other side. It was but a fleeting glimpse that she had, but her nerves sprang to a conclusion. Quickly she pushed through the tangled bush, and stepped on to the green. One moment she stood there, staring intently to the right, and again heard the faint rustle. The leaves seemed to quiver in one spot, and grew still again.</p>
			<p>Every pulse was throbbing in her body, but she forced herself to walk calmly forward, outwardly careless and aimless. The blood sang in her ears, for she knew that there was one, perhaps more, behind the hedge, watching her intently. On she went, heart beating loud and unevenly, but walking slowly, looking about her. It seemed to her that the bowling-green had become of a sudden a vast desert which she could never span, but at last she came to the end, pretended to hesitate a moment, and then went through the gap. The path twisted almost at once, and so soon as she had rounded the bend, she caught up her skirts and ran as if for dear life along the tortuous alley.</p>
			<p>Simon was in the pleasaunce gazing abstractedly down upon the sundial that stood in the centre. All about him were little walks and flowerbeds, with snowdrops growing in them. The sound of light footsteps speeding towards him made him look up quickly, a hand to his sword-hilt. Into the pleasaunce came the Lady Margaret, panting for breath and running like one possessed. He started forward, brow lowering.</p>
			<p>вҖңWhat is it? Who hath daredвҒ вҖ”вҖқ</p>
			<p>She almost fell into his arms, outstretched to receive her, clutching at his long tunic with desperate fingers.</p>
			<p>вҖңCome, come awayвҒ вҖ”I implore thee! GiveвҒ вҖ”give meвҒ вҖ”thine arm! ThyвҒ вҖ”thyвҒ вҖ”sword? Ah! Quickly, quickly! AwayвҒ вҖ”from thisвҒ вҖ”spot!вҖқ</p>
			<p>SimonвҖҷs hands were on her shoulders, his voice rang harshly in her ears.</p>
			<p>вҖңWho hath dared to molest thee? Answer!вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңNoneвҒ вҖ”none!вҖқ She tugged wildly at his tunic. вҖңItвҒ вҖ”it is not that! Oh, come, come! Every moment you stayвҒ вҖ”may meanвҒ вҖ”death!вҖқ</p>
			<p>He stared at her in surprise, then cast a quick look around.</p>
			<p>вҖңDeath? What mean ye, child?вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңOh, tarry not!вҖқ she implored. вҖңIвҒ вҖ”take me to the castleвҒ вҖ”I beg of you! IвҒ вҖ”oh, come, milorвҖҷ! Come! Come! There is someoneвҒ вҖ”lurkingвҒ вҖ”behind the bushes! HeвҒ вҖ”I saw him yonder, creeping in thy wake! Even nowвҒ вҖ”he may beвҒ вҖ”upon us! For GodвҖҷs sake come away!вҖқ</p>
			<p>But Simon had his arms about her and his voice was strangely moved.</p>
			<p>вҖңAnd thou didst come to warn me, Margaret?вҖқ</p>
			<p>In her frenzy she scarcely noticed his embrace, but beat her clenched fists against his breast.</p>
			<p>вҖңOh, will you not come? Will you not come?вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңI fear no assassin that ever drew breath, child,вҖқ he said gently, вҖңbut I will come if you will it so.вҖқ</p>
			<p>She drew a sobbing breath of relief, falling back.</p>
			<p>вҖңThenвҒ вҖ”thenвҒ вҖ”walk on my right, milorвҖҷ, andвҒ вҖ”andвҒ вҖ”walk swiftly!вҖқ</p>
			<p>Even as she spoke he turned sharply round on his heel, staring into the bushes. Slowly he drew his sword, and went forward, panther-like. Margaret stayed by the sundial, trembling, but fearful of uttering a single cry lest it warn the prey he stalked of danger. She saw Simon leap forward, as if some spring within him had been loosed, and thrust with his sword through the hedge. A muffled shriek came, a scuffle and the sound of thudding footsteps, retreating in haste. Simon turned, wiped his sword upon the grass, and sheathed it. Then he came back to Margaret and stood before her.</p>
			<p>вҖңWas it only out of gratitude that thou didst come to warn me?вҖқ he asked.</p>
			<p>She started. Gripping the edge of the sundial, and gazing up at him with wild, hungry eyes.</p>
			<p>вҖңThine is a strange hatred,вҖқ Simon went on, and held out his hands. вҖңIs it hate indeed?вҖқ</p>
			<p>Her knees shook under her; her breath came fast and uneven.</p>
			<p>вҖңAyвҒ вҖ”hateвҒ вҖ”hateвҒ вҖ”hate! Ah, what ails me? What have I done? WhatвҒ вҖ”whatвҒ вҖ”I am mad! IвҒ вҖ”it was gratitude! IвҒ вҖ”I have not changed! I yield meвҒ вҖ”never!вҖқ She shrank away, warding him off. вҖңTouch me not! I could not let him slay theeвҒ вҖ”thus! IвҒ вҖ”I could not, butвҒ вҖ”IвҒ вҖ”I thinkвҒ вҖ”I amвҒ вҖ”like toвҒ вҖ”swoon!вҖқ</p>
			<p>He caught her even as she swayed, sweeping her off her feet. One instant she struggled, crying out, and then crumpled up in his arms, her head falling back lifeless.</p>
			<p>Swiftly Simon bore her to the castle, brushing past staring lackeys, and striding to the stairs. He came to the CountessвҖҷs rooms, and there found Jeanne with HГ©lГЁne.</p>
			<p>вҖңShe hath swooned only,вҖқ he said in answer to the startled outcry. вҖңIt was her wound, belike.вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңLay her down, lay her down!вҖқ Jeanne commanded, and spread cushions on the wooden settle.</p>
			<p>Gently Simon laid his burden on them.</p>
			<p>вҖңShe ran to warn me of danger from an assassinвҖҷs knife,вҖқ he said curtly. вҖңShe hath taвҖҷen no hurt, nor I. Look to her, mademoiselle, and have a care.вҖқ</p>
			<p>Jeanne smiled a little at that.</p>
			<p>вҖңYes, milorвҖҷ,вҖқ she said demurely, and with twinkling eyes watched him go out.</p>
			<p>Sighing the Lady Margaret came to her senses.</p>
			<p>вҖңJeanne? MethoughtвҒ вҖ”ah, he is safe?вҖқ She struggled up, staring about her.</p>
			<p>Jeanne pressed her back on to the cushions.</p>
			<p>вҖңYes, <i xml:lang="fr">chГ©rie</i>, quite safe. He brought thee here. <i xml:lang="fr">Mignonne, mignonne</i>, I would not lie to thee!вҖқ</p>
			<p>The strained muscles relaxed. Margaret lay still, eyes closed. Presently she opened them, and looked wistfully up at her lady.</p>
			<p>вҖңIвҒ вҖ”I am mad, Jeanne,вҖқ she said, and her lips quivered. вҖңIвҒ вҖ”do notвҒ вҖ”reallyвҒ вҖ”careвҒ вҖ”whether heвҒ вҖ”is aliveвҒ вҖ”or dead! IвҒ вҖ”my headвҒ вҖ”is reeling! Jeanne! IвҒ вҖ”I amвҒ вҖ”weeping! WhatвҒ вҖ”comes to me?вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңLove, <i xml:lang="fr">chГ©rie</i>,вҖқ Jeanne whispered, and kissed her softly.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
